Update App Store Engineering Guidelines (#318)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/vtex-io/Perks/vtex-io-documentation-homologation-requirements-for-vtex-app-store/vtex-io-documentation-engineering-guidelines.md

1. [Open a ticket](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/opening-tickets-to-vtex-support--16yOEqpO32UQYygSmMSSAM) requesting to remove your app from the VTEX App Store and avoid further installations of the unstable version.
2. Notify us of the issue by [opening tickets](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/opening-tickets-to-vtex-support--16yOEqpO32UQYygSmMSSAM) so that we can provide support to retailers operating with this version and guide them on how to remove it from their stores.
3. Fix the security flaw and resubmit your application for homologation.

Once the new version is approved, the app will be available again in the VTEX App Store.

### Hardcoding VTEX appKey/appToken

Having a an appKey/appToken exposed in your code can cause serious security issues, like unwanted access. Instead of using a VTEX appKey/appToken pair, apps should use the existing tokens (`ctx.authToken`,  `ctx.vtex.storeUserAuthToken` or `ctx.vtex.adminUserAuthToken`). For more information, see [Connecting to VTEX Core Commerce APIs](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/how-to-connect-with-vtex-core-commerce-apis-using-vtex-io#steps).

> ### Using app token for a user-initiated action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using an app token for a user-initiated action
```

For user-initiated actions, apps should use either `ctx.vtex.storeUserAuthToken` or `ctx.vtex.adminUserAuthToken` (as opposed to `ctx.authToken`). For more information, see [Connecting to VTEX Core Commerce APIs](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-developer-docs/docs/how-to-connect-with-vtex-core-commerce-apis-using-vtex-io#steps).

### Declaring broad policies

> Outbound access policies (`outbound-access`) to VTEX resources should follow the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). In short, you only give access to what is really needed. For instance: the `path` should not be configured as `*`. See an example [here](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql/blob/684dcbbbd6e9cdbd121afd7802200856cb952d2b/manifest.json#L107-L112) of how it should be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outbound access policies (`outbound-access`) to VTEX resources should follow the [principle of least privilege](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_privilege). In short, you only give access to what is really needed. For instance, the `path` should not be configured as `*`. See an example [here](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-graphql/blob/684dcbbbd6e9cdbd121afd7802200856cb952d2b/manifest.json#L107-L112) of how it should be done.
```

> ### Avoid exposing private information through public routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Do not expose private information through public routes
```

> Public routes do not require authentication when called from the Frontend, so they should not expose information obtained from calling private APIs, e.g.: exposing a list of orders to the Frontend. A common mistake is leaving routes which are meant to only be consumed from the Admin unrestricted. Also, GraphQL APIs are public by default, so the schema should not have queries exposing private information either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the name suggests, public routes do not require authentication when accessed from the frontend. Consequently, they should never reveal data sourced from private APIs, such as displaying a list of orders directly to the frontend. In this sense, a common mistake is failing to restrict routes intended exclusively for Admin usage. Additionally, keep in mind that GraphQL APIs are public by default, necessitating cautious schema design to avoid queries that inadvertently expose confidential information.
```

Access to REST APIs should be restricted using [policies](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-policies#resource-based-policies). Access to GraphQL APIs should be restricted using directives, either [@auth](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/blob/08ea11d380997f5abf02455487b342caa74b2001/src/service/worker/runtime/graphql/schema/schemaDirectives/Auth.ts#L66-L75) or a custom-made one.

### Isolate data between tenants

Single-tenant external systems should be used carefully. Data from one tenant must always be isolated from data from another tenant to prevent leakage and unwanted access. The isolation method will depend on the external system. One possible solution is to use the name (or other identifier) of the tenant in routes or as a parameter for access control or to define how the data is managed.

## Data privacy

### Persisting PII within VTEX

> If using Master Data or VBase to store Personal Identifiable Information (PII), a mechanism must be in place to ensure compliance with the [Right to be Forgotten](https://www.gdpreu.org/right-to-be-forgotten/) or other similar data-protection practices. Possible solutions are to provide an option or endpoint in the app that erases the data, for instance, by using a delete operation with our Clients ([Master Data](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/create-master-data-crud-app#delete), [VBase](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/blob/1b3c54976aa974619d0728fae4ed2fe076dbb551/src/clients/infra/VBase.ts#L178)) or through the API ([Master Data v1](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/masterdata-api#delete-/api/dataentities/-acronym-/documents/-id-), [Master Data v2](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/master-data-api-v2#delete-/api/dataentities/-dataEntityName-/documents/-id-)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Master Data or VBase to store Personal Identifiable Information (PII), a mechanism must be in place to ensure compliance with the [Right to be Forgotten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_to_be_forgotten) or other similar data-protection practices. Possible solutions are to provide an option or endpoint in the app that erases the data, for instance, by using a delete operation with our Clients ([Master Data](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/create-master-data-crud-app#delete), [VBase](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/blob/1b3c54976aa974619d0728fae4ed2fe076dbb551/src/clients/infra/VBase.ts#L178)) or through the API ([Master Data v1](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/masterdata-api#delete-/api/dataentities/-acronym-/documents/-id-), [Master Data v2](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/master-data-api-v2#delete-/api/dataentities/-dataEntityName-/documents/-id-)).
```

### Sending PII to external service

We should ensure that all PII being shared externally is strictly necessary for the app to work. If you have any questions, reach out to us [via ticket](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/opening-tickets-to-vtex-support--16yOEqpO32UQYygSmMSSAM).

## Usability

### Implementing internationalization (i18n) correctly

> Ensure that all messages are [internationalized](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-multi-language-stores#storefront-content-internationalization) using the `messages` builder. Also, i18n keys should start with the domain (`store/` for storefront and `admin/` for Admin) where they are used, otherwise they will not render properly. For more information, see our [reference](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component) for translating components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that all messages are [internationalized](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-multi-language-stores#storefront-content-internationalization) using the `messages` builder. Also, i18n keys should start with the domain (`store/` for storefront and `admin/` for Admin) where they are used. Otherwise, they will not render properly. For more information, see our [reference](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component) for translating components.
```

### Avoid declaring routes with collision-prone paths

> When declaring [routes](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-routes), generic paths (e.g.: `/_v/orders/`, `/_v/settings`) should be avoided to reduce changes of collision with other apps. A suggestion is to add a prefix (i.e.: the name of the app) in the routes to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When declaring [routes](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-routes), generic paths (e.g., `/_v/orders/`, `/_v/settings`) should be avoided to reduce chances of collision with other apps. 

To mitigate this risk, consider adopting a naming convention that includes a distinctive prefix, typically the name of your app, when defining routes. This simple practice effectively reduces the chances of conflicts and ensures that your app's routes remain uniquely identifiable and isolated from others.
```

### Creating custom Admin settings form

> We recommend building the Admin settings form of your app using the [settingsSchema](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-manifest#settingsschema) structure, which should cover most cases. We also understand that there are some specific cases where the schema is not enough to build the settings page of the app, which will be assessed by our team in the homologation. For the cases where the schema is not enough, you can create your form as a page of an [Admin app](https://learn.vtex.com/docs/course-admin-lang-en).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our primary recommendation for defining the Admin settings form of your app is to leverage the [`settingsSchema`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-manifest#settingsschema) structure, as it caters to the majority of use cases effectively. 

However, for more specific cases where the schema is insufficient, you can create your form as a page of an [Admin app](https://learn.vtex.com/docs/course-admin-lang-en). In such cases, our team will evaluate your requirements during the homologation process.
```

> > ℹ️ During the [homologation process](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-homologation-requirements-for-vtex-app-store), a series of load tests are performed under different conditions to ensure that your application is scalable. This includes, for example, testing the response time of your APIs at request levels similar to those experienced on Black Friday. At any sign of a crash or failure to respond, your app will fail for performance issues.

Reviewer 2: Also, I think these "Dos and Don'ts" sections are a bit inconsistent with the structure of the rest of the page. I also feel most of the content is already covered in other sections.

Access to REST APIs should be restricted using [policies](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-developer-docs/docs/vtex-io-documentation-policies#resource-based-policies). Access to GraphQL APIs should be restricted using directives, either [@auth](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/blob/08ea11d380997f5abf02455487b342caa74b2001/src/service/worker/runtime/graphql/schema/schemaDirectives/Auth.ts#L66-L75) or a custom-made one.

### Isolate data between tenants

Single-tenant external systems should be used carefully. Data from one tenant should always be isolated from data from another tenant to prevent leakage and unwanted access.

### Persisting PII within VTEX

If using Master Data or VBase to store Personal Indentifiable Information (PII), a mechanism should be in place to ensure compliance with the [Right to be Forgotten](https://www.gdpreu.org/right-to-be-forgotten/) or other similar data-protection practices.

### Sending PII to external service

We should ensure that all PII being shared externally is strictly necessary for the app to work. If you have any questions, reach out our team by [opening a ticket](https://help-tickets.vtex.com/smartlink/sso/login/zendesk).

> ## Coding standards

Reviewer 2: I think this section should be removed. We haven't been enforcing this because there's no practical implication in not following it.
